
# ADR 1: Why and how to use Architecture Decision Records.

## Context

Architecture for agile projects has to be described and defined differently. Not all decisions will be made at once, nor will all of them be done when the project begins.

One of the hardest things to track during the life of a project is the motivation behind certain decisions. A new person coming on to a project may be perplexed, baffled, delighted, or infuriated by some past decision. Without understanding the rationale or consequences, this person has only two choices:

1. Blindly accept the decision.
2. Blindly change it.

## Decision

The *Rubber Knife* project will keep a collection of records for "architecturally significant" decisions: those that affect the structure, non-functional characteristics, dependencies, interfaces, or construction techniques.

An architecture decision record (ADR) is a short text file in a format similar to an Alexandrian pattern. Each record describes a set of forces and a single decision in response to those forces. Note that the decision is the central piece here, so specific forces may appear in multiple ADRs.

We will keep ADRs in the project repository under `doc/arch/adr-NNN.md` using a lightweight text formatting language like Markdown or
Textile. ADRs will be numbered sequentially and monotonically; numbers will not be reused. If a decision is reversed, we will keep the old one around, but mark it as superseded. (It's still relevant to know that it was the decision, but is no longer the decision.)


We will use a format with just a few parts, so each document is easy to digest:

>**Title:**
These documents have names that are short noun phrases. For example, "ADR 1: Deployment on Ruby on Rails 3.0.10" or "ADR 9: LDAP for Multitenant Integration"

> **Context:**
This section describes the forces at play, including technological, political, social, and project local. These forces are probably in tension, and should be called out as such. The language in this section is value-neutral. It is simply describing facts.

> **Decision:**
This section describes our response to these forces. It is stated in full sentences, with active voice. "We will ..."

> **Status:**
A decision may be "proposed" if the project stakeholders haven't agreed with it yet, or "accepted" once it is agreed. If a later ADR changes or reverses a decision, it may be marked as "deprecated" or "superseded" with a reference to its replacement.

> **Consequences:**
This section describes the resulting context, after applying the decision. All consequences should be listed here, not just the "positive" ones. A particular decision may have positive, negative, and neutral consequences, but all of them affect the team and project in the future.

We will write each ADR as if it were a conversation with a future developer. This requires conscientious writing style, with full sentences organized into paragraphs.

## Status

Accepted.

## Consequences

Each ADR will describe one significant decision relevant to the *Rubber Knife* project. A given decision's significance should extend so far as to observe an effect on how the rest of the project will run.

The consequences of one ADR are likely to serve as context for subsequent ADRs. This is also similar to Alexander's idea of a pattern language: the large-scale responses create spaces for the smaller scale to fit into.

Developers and project stakeholders can view the ADRs, even as the team composition changes over time.

---

## Further Reading
The ADR concept was inspired and adapted from the [following post](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions)
